# Breast Cancer Subtype Classification

- This project goal is to use the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data on Breast cancer patients to classify Breast Cancer subtypes using gene expression (transcriptomics) data. This is a multiclass classfication problem because there are 5 main subtypes of breast cancer. I hope to use unsupervised machine learning model for this project.

- Background: Breast Cancer is a heterogeneous diseases, meaning there are multiple subtypes of breast cancer with different pathological properties. Breast Cancer tumors can be classified into 5 main subtypes: Luminal A, Luminal B, HER2-enriched, Basal-like, and Normal-like. Knowing patients' cancer subtype is important to determine the course of treatment and appropriate therapy. Some subtypes are considered more aggressive and need urgent removal surgery and chemo therapy combined. However, some other types of breast cancers are less agressive and can be responsive to noninvasive hormone therapy.

- Because it is important to identify breast cancer subtypes, scientists studying molecular biology have come up with a list of 50 genes that are unique to each subtype. This list is call PAM50, which contains major cancer biomarkers for breast cancer.

- I hope to use the gene expression of PAM50 genes to train unsupervised models to classify breast cancer subtype with high accuracy. I hope that my model could offer an alternative tool to traditional immunohistochemtry classification.

- The results here are in whole or part based upon data generated by the TCGA Research Network: https://www.cancer.gov/tcga. Data was downloaded using cBioPortal:
Cerami et al. The cBio Cancer Genomics Portal: An Open Platform for Exploring Multidimensional Cancer Genomics Data. Cancer Discovery. May 2012 2; 401. PubMed.
